---
title: Testing Patches
description: Distribute patches to groups of users via Tracks
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

We recommend that you test your patches with a subset of users before
distributing to all users.

Shorebird’s mechanism to release to a subset of users is “tracks”. By
convention the “stable” track is distributed to all users of your app by
default. When you make a patch “live” it goes to “stable” and all users will
update to that patch.

Today Shorebird supports “staging”, “beta” and “stable” tracks:
https://pub.dev/documentation/shorebird_code_push/latest/shorebird_code_push/UpdateTrack.html
We have plans to [allow additional track names in the future](https://github.com/shorebirdtech/updater/issues/255).

Typically we se customers use "staging" for internal testing (on developers
machines) and "beta" for wider group testing (e.g. QA teams where `shorebird`
commands are not available).

We recommend 3 ways to distribute patches to a subset of
users (e.g. your QA team) for testing without affecting your public users in
production.

All of these options require disabling auto_update support, and using
[package:shorebird_code_push](https://pub.dev/packages/shorebird_code_push) for
more advanced control over the update process.

### Option 1: Hidden UI to switch tracks

If your app does not have a login/user-account mechanism, this is your best
option. If it does, we recommend option 2.

Some stores discourage hidden UIs, however our customers tell us it is common
practice. For example how Android enables developer mode when [clicking 7 times
on the version of
Android](https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/dev-options), some apps may
enable a “QA” mode in their app after a certain series of clicks or special
gestures, etc. From a QA mode you could allow testers to switch to the “beta”
patch track even from your production app. They could similarly switch back to
“stable” to move back to what production users see today.

### Option 2: Control Shorebird track based on the current user’s account.

If your app has a login mechanism, this is your best option. If it does not, we
recommend option 1.

Once your user has logged in, you can mark a user as a tester in your user
information and then change your Shorebird update code to use that information
when updating, e.g.

```dart
final track = user.isTester ? ShorebirdTrack.beta : ShorebirdTrack.stable;
shorebirdUpdater.update(track);
```

### Option 3: Control Shorebird Track based on how the app was installed.

Other companies provide existing mechanisms for testing mobile apps before
production. Apple TestFlight, Google Release Tracks, Firebase App Distribution
are all examples of this. Shorebird does not have built-in detection of these
distribution mechanisms, but it is typically possible to detect the mechanism
via which an App was installed on the user’s device.

It is then possible to key the Shorebird track off of this install mechanism,
allowing you to thus distribute patches _only_ to your TestFlight users, etc.

Because detection of install mechanisms can be unreliable, we recommend option 1
or 2 for most teams, however include this for completeness. Most teams who
distribute via TestFlight, for example, also have QA-specific accounts and thus
Option 2 is available to them and generally works strictly better.
