---
title: FAQ
description: Frequently asked questions about Shorebird CI
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

Still have a question about Shorebird CI that our docs didn’t cover? You’re in
the right place. This page covers the most common questions. If you have a
question not answered here or elsewhere in the docs, reach out on Discord or
file an issue. We’re here to help.

## Product Overview

### Why should I use this rather then another solution?

- **Designed for Flutter & Dart** - With this as our leading prinicpal Shorbird
  CI has support for Flutter & Dart specific features. This includes automatic
  monorepo & workspace support, automatic paralallzation across multiple package
  builds, and chacing for all critical tooling for fast execution.
- **Zero config** - Nothing to think about (or worry about keeping up to date).
  Shorebird CI just “does the right thing” for Flutter and Dart projects. (We
  expect we’ll eventually expose a small amount of configuration, but we’re
  intentionally starting maximally simple.)
- **Fast** - On par with GitHub actions (and we know how to make it faster
  still). Quick bootups, uses similar (if slightly larger) machine instances,
  uses namespace.so’s fancy caching mechanism, etc.

:::note

This is not currently designed to replace your existing release flow (e.g.
CodeMagic, fastlane, etc.) but rather to supplement them.

:::

### How fast is it?

Checks typically complete in under a minute even with our (large) monorepos.
Mostly due to our (very basic) caching of Flutter/Dart and automatic
parallelization of packages. We haven’t yet done a pass of performance
optimizations but we plan to invest time in making performance even better in
the coming days/weeks.

### What checks are supported

Not yet. But we would love to know how we can improve the service for you!

Let us know what you’d like to see added either by Asking on Discord
https://discord.gg/shorebird (ideally the #ci-alpha channel:
https://discord.com/channels/1030243211995791380/1395167987211833456) Commenting
on this doc Or emailing contact@shorebird.dev

## GitHub

### What GitHub permissions does it require and why?

Read access to code and metadata Necessary to run checks. You can restrict the
app to one repo, or use it across all repositories. The system will only do any
work for repositories it detects are Flutter or Dart. Read access to
organization members Necessary to list organizations you’re a member of. Read
and write access to actions, checks, commit statuses, issues, pull requests, and
repository hooks. Necessary to report check status back to GitHub.

## Data Privacy

### Where do builds happen?

Currently builds are happening through partnership with namespace.so. Namespace
uses several custom datacenters throughout the world.

### Are there usage limits?

Currently no. We will be adding limits as we get closer to production. There are
already some abuse mitigations in place.

### What data do you retain?

The only data we intentionally retain is your build logs, which are served from
ci.shorebird.dev. These logs are currently public, since we only support public
repositories at this time.

namespace.so, also does not retain your data other than logs (even your public
data) past the point of executing the build. See their terms:
https://namespace.so/terms

We also maintain some minimal metadata to associate a pull request/commit with a
build log.

We retain a copy of your (public) source code to speed up repeated builds. We do
not currently have an explicit retention time on this, but will before we
support private repositories.

We do reserve the right to automatically resume/repeat checks at a later time
(e.g. after an outage), so it is possible you will see duplicate/additional
build messages on your PRs (or if your tests make mutating network requests,
etc.) as a result while we’re tuning the system.

We expect to fully reset the system (delete all historical data) between now and
production, possibly multiple times. Significant work is still required to
support full multi-tenant privacy up to our standards (e.g. so we can support
private repos/paid customers).

### How can I delete my data from the service?

Uninstall the app on GitHub.

Public log links (ci.shorebird.dev) are currently retained after un-install (to
not break links on existing PRs), email us if you require those deleted:
contact@shorebird.dev.
